so it just got a question from the
audience here on the live stream
Curious George asks aisel how is it
being an intellectual that likes hip-hop
I imagine you probably get a lot of
scoffs from your pretentious peers no I
don't so it's an interesting question
the answer may surprise you
so most recently academically I've been
involved with Asian Studies and actually
I think every single one of the
professor's I talked about it with
because it did it did come up actually I
mean one of the professor's just because
he had a deep intellectual respect for
me he sat down and he really asked you
he asked what kind of music deals do
just for that reason it was there was no
context don't I mean it wasn't like a
situation where I was where music was a
natural part of the conversation or
something he really wanted to know what
terms are getting to know me and so on
snow I'm 38 years old some of these
professors are as old as say 55 but
people who are 55 now they've already
grown up with hip-hop being a dominant
force in American culture in Western
culture and in world culture and I guess
the type of people I dealt with in a
field like Asian Studies or feel like
anthropology I think a lot of them
respected my engagement with hip-hop
just because they saw it as me making an
effort to overcome a cultural barrier
probably probably to generalize that's
the maybe the most basic or fundamental
thing they're like in the same way that
they might just respect someone who made
the effort to go to Laos and learn to
speak loshon just to overcome that
barrier to really be involved with
what's going on in Laos to care about
the history and the politics and and the
language just just the fact that it is
crossing a cultural line makes them
respect it but other than that most of
these professors most people around me
even if they're fully 55 years old I
think most of them they have all of them
have left listen to rap music listen to
hip-hop to some extent and I guess all
of them always wondered how their lives
would be different if they made more of
an effort to really understand
and what was going on in rap because you
can listen to it passively or you can
try to get more involved try to follow
what's going on in hip-hop music and you
know even to understand even take the
time to Google some of the obscure
cultural references in rap lyrics we all
do that okay it is not just white people
who need to google bizarre cultural
historic allusions and rap music we all
google rap lyrics all of us a letter
where you're from I don't care if you
grew up in the grotty s ghetto in
Chicago you have used Google to look up
something around maybe not the slang
maybe you get all the slang terms like
phone em but I just got phone em
recently uh by the way I mean you know
if you listen to what Aang there are
historical and political uh you know
allusions and all this stuff so no I
mean it's it's a great question that has
really not been my experience and I
guess you know the only contrast that
would be what would the attitudes of the
Buddhist intellectuals have been you
know from a Buddhist perspective
Buddhism is a hundred percent anti-drug
100% aunty alcohol and how person eighty
violence so the fact that so much rap
music revolves around those things I
mean again I never had a Buddhist step
to me about that or even ask me better
want to talk about it but I mean I guess
for me from my perspective I don't feel
like I'm listening to music that
celebrates something I disapprove of you
know what I mean
that for me isn't a problem with rap
music as an art form in the same sense
you can be a big fan of Shakespeare but
you don't approve of sword fights come
on people how many how many stabbings
are there in Hamlet we think of Hamlet
as this great work of literature but
when it really comes down to it a large
part of Hamlet is about sword fight
it's about knife fights between bored
noble men you know I'm Sam so yeah in my
life I haven't felt that I haven't felt
that that contradiction at all and the
to quote the question the the
pretentious intellectuals around me
maybe it's significant that they all
they
but look I mean at that at the end of
the day the bottom line the last in the
Santa says rap music as an art form it's
not hard to appreciate why it's
meaningful or why it's moving to the
people listen to it and by contrast
something like abstract painting it may
be very very difficult for an outsider
to appreciate why it's meaningful or why
it's moving to you why this painting
that doesn't depict anything that's just
a bunch of colors on a camp of canvas
even science fiction why is Star Trek so
meaningful and so moving to the people
who care about it's not to me I'm not a
Star Trek fan for an outsider they don't
get what are these people connecting to
but a lot of rap music even if you can't
understand all the lyrics there's a song
by RZA or is that a RZA I guess I can
give a link there's some of our razor
that's called grits GRI TS I'll give a
link below this video even if you
understand only 25% of the lyrics
everything about that song it's obvious
why it means so much the people
recording it it's obvious why it means
so much the people paying to buy the
album back in the days and people paid
to buy albums it's obvious why there'd
be an audience who cares about it
listens to it in response to it even if
you aren't a part of their arts even if
you don't have the response so yeah
that's it man that's the surprising
answer to that question I've never had
problems with the other intellectuals in
my life disrespecting me for that and
the women in my life most of them they
also listen to rap music